I implemented a method for language localisation to utilise JSON files to externally store the dialogue data. This keeps the dialogue separate from the code and easily adjustable for the narrative designers as well as being able to split it into categories for different menu text data or dialogue text data. One issue with this method is that JSON files can have very strict syntax so anyone working on the files without proper knowledge or just simply forgetting a comma will receive an error without knowing where exactly that error in the file is. Implementing Microsoft Excel instead of JSON could help make it a lot easier when there’s a lot of dialogue and characters, it would make implementing custom language options for users themselves much easier and Excel also has auto-translation plugins to make localisation much simpler.


The UI scaling is handled by a layout manager which sorts the UI’s positions to redefined transforms for portrait and landscape mode that can be manually changed and be independent of each other. This gives a lot of freedom to configure the layouts for both portrait and landscape uniquely without having to worry about changing the transform on one mode and having that mess out the transform on the opposite. The downside to this method is that making and setting up the transforms can take a little while and a larger project could make it quite intricate. However, implementing an automated process of spawning and assigning layout transforms running in edit-time when new UI elements are implemented would handle many issues like ordering and parenting. Alternative methods such as having two separate canvas’ isn’t a good idea for the requirement of having to update it twice. Simply relying on anchoring can be an issue because achieving the desired layout for the landscape would require corner anchors which would cause problems when changing aspect ratios when in portrait mode with the UI wanting to be centered aligned. I tested a grid layout component method that would order the start button and language dropdown centre and vertically in portrait and then be compressed to align it horizontally when in landscape. However, the alignment couldn’t match the same as the example alignment diagrams which would’ve been specifically designed and positioned by the UI artists, and there’s also the issue that the grid layout component does not scale the layout element children which is a big issue for aspect ratios.
